Breast cancer affects thousands of women each year.
These women face many treatment decisions,
including surgery to remove cancerous tissue.
An important part of this discussion
is the possibility of breast reconstruction.
Many women are candidates for
breast reconstruction after one
or both breasts have been removed;
however, most don’t receive information
about reconstruction options when making
treatment decisions at diagnosis.
Breast reconstruction can either be immediate
performed at the same time as mastectomy,
or delayed—performed at a later date post-mastectomy.
There are different techniques,
approaches, and stages for each.
The process typically involves two stages:
placement of a tissue expander
and then placement of a long-term implant.
For immediate reconstruction,
the expander is placed at the time of mastectomy.
For delayed reconstruction,
an incision is made using the
original mastectomy incision
and the tissue expander is inserted
and properly positioned.
The expander is like a balloon.
At regular intervals
over the next 4- 6 months,
the plastic surgeon injects saline into it
to stretch the skin
and help keep scar tissue from forming.
When enough tissue has stretched,
the expander is replaced with a long term implant
filled with saline or silicone gel.
The nipple and areola can be reconstructed
after the breast has healed using various techniques.
In addition, tattooing of the areola
may be done to match the other breast.
Optimal patient outcomes depend on many factors.
Speak to your doctor about
breast reconstruction early.
He or she can point you in the right direction
and help you find a plastic surgeon
that’s right for you.